Catalog revision (#25)
ezsystems/commerce-documentation: docs/guide/catalog/product_variants/product_variants.md

# Product variants

Product variants define different versions of a product.
Variants can, for example, define product color or size.

Built-in variants enable you to offer Size, Color, Package, or Size and Color variants.

![Product variants](../../img/catalog_product_variants.png)

> To have variants, the product Content Type must have a Field with the `ses_variants` identifier belonging to the `uivarvarianttype` Field Type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To have variants, the product Content Type must have a Field with the `ses_variants` identifier that belongs to the `uivarvarianttype` Field Type. 
```

## Variant display

> In the configuration you can select one of two interfaces for displaying variants:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the configuration, you can select one of two interfaces for displaying variants:
```

    0:
        sort: false
    1:
        sort: true
        order: DESC
```

Use the custom `sort_characteristics` and `sort_characteristic_codes` Twig filters
to display sorted variant characteristics.

### `sort_characteristics()`

`sort_characteristics()` sorts characteristics for a catalog element type (like unit, color, weight etc.):

``` html+twig
{% set sortedCharacterictics = catalogElement.variantCharacteristics.characteristics|sort_characteristics(catalogElement.type) %}
```

If you want to change the order of characteristics manually (e.g. unit first and then color) you can pass the order in the template as well:

``` html+twig
{% set order = ['2','1'] %}
{% set sortedCharacterictics = catalogElement.variantCharacteristics.characteristics|sort_characteristics(catalogElement, order) %}
```

### `sort_characteristic_codes()`

`sort_characteristic_codes()` sorts specific characteristic codes (for codes like green, red, blue etc.):

``` html+twig
// variantIndex, e.g. 1
{% set variantCharacteristic = variantCharacteristic|sort_characteristic_codes(variantIndex) %}
```

## Variants from ERP

There are two ways in which ERP systems handle variants:

> - The ERP system can use an SKU and offer a list of variant codes for each individual product (e.g. a bed in size 160 and in white). In this case the product is identified by the SKU and the `variantCode`: `SKU_AND_VARIANT`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ERP system can use an SKU and offer a list of variant codes for each individual product (e.g. a bed in size 160 and in white). 
In this case the product is identified by the SKU and the `variantCode`: `SKU_AND_VARIANT`
```

> - Often the ERP system doesn't store variants as "real" variants but uses a unique SKU for each variant. Often these "variants" are grouped by a PIM system or a special field in the ERP system. In this case, the `variantCode` from the catalog is the actual SKU that is sent to the ERP: `SKU_ONLY`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- However, the ERP system might not store variants as "real" variants but use a unique SKU for each variant instead. 
These "variants" can be grouped by a PIM system or a special field in the ERP system. 
In this case, the `variantCode` from the catalog is the actual SKU that is sent to the ERP: `SKU_ONLY`
```

> eZ Commerce supports both methods. To select a method, use the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eZ Commerce supports both methods. 
To select a method, use the following configuration:
```

``` yaml
parameters: 
    # possible values: SKU_ONLY (default), SKU_AND_VARIANT
    silver_eshop.default.erp.variant_handling: "SKU_ONLY"
```

### Price requests from ERP

When a price is requested from the ERP, the shop sends the SKU and optionally a variant code as well.

If `SKU_AND_VARIANT` is used then the UBL request contains the SKU (ID) and the variant code (`ExtendedID`):

``` xml
<Item>
    <Name/>
    <SellersItemIdentification>
        <ID>1000</ID>
        <ExtendedID>VAR-GRN</ExtendedID>
    </SellersItemIdentification>
    <BuyersItemIdentification>
        <ID/>
    </BuyersItemIdentification>
</Item>
```

> If `SKU_ONLY` is used, the shop sends the variant code in both fields to the ERP. The variant code contains the SKU in this case. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `SKU_ONLY` is used, the shop sends the variant code in both fields to the ERP. 
The variant code contains the SKU in this case. 
```
